Serverless configuration (#135)
signalfx/gdi-specification: specification/configuration.md

| :------------------------------------:          | :--------------------------------------------------------:     |
| `SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN` ()                        | Access token added to exported data. [1]                       |
| `SPLUNK_TRACE_RESPONSE_HEADER_ENABLED` (`true`) | Whether `Server-Timing` header is added to HTTP responses. [2] |

> | `SPLUNK_METRICS_ENDPOINT` ()                    | Endpoint for non-OTel metrics data ingest.                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SPLUNK_METRICS_ENDPOINT` ()                    | Endpoint for metrics data ingest.                     |
```

Reviewer: Just to confirm @mateuszrzeszutek this is what splunk-otel-java uses?

Reviewer 2: In the name of Mateusz - yes it is.

- RUM library MUST use the Zipkin v2 JSON span exporter by default
- RUM library MUST limit the number of sent spans to 100 in a 30 second window per `component` attribute value

#### Serverless 

> Current serverless offering is composed of separate metrics (non OpenTelemetry) and traces (OpenTelemetry) solutions. By default, the serverless components send data directly to Splunk Observability Cloud (direct ingest). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, serverless components MUST send data directly to Splunk Observability Cloud (direct ingest). 
```

> Apart from standard set of configuration properties for instrumentation libraries based on OpenTelemetry, serverless MUST honour the following:  

Reviewer: In addition to honoring, I think we should require token+realm or endpoint to be defined.

Reviewer 2: Added remark.

| Name                | Default value        | Description                                            |
| ------------------- | -------------------  | ------------------------------------------------------ |

> | `SPLUNK_REALM`      | none                 | Splunk Observability Cloud ingest realm [1]            |

Reviewer 2: Done.

- [1] Either `SPLUNK_REALM` or relevant traces exporter endpoint property and `SPLUNK_METRICS_INGEST_URL` MUST be set.

    If `SPLUNK_REALM` is defined, both relevant traces and metrics exporter endpoints will have following values:
    - traces (in case of `otlp`): `https://ingest.${SPLUNK_REALM}.signalfx.com/v2/trace/otlp` 
    - traces (all other cases):`https://ingest.REALM.signalfx.com/v2/trace`
    - metrics: `https://ingest.${SPLUNK_REALM}.signalfx.com`
    
    If relevant traces exporter endpoint property (eg `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_ENDPOINT` for `otlp`) or `SPLUNK_METRICS_INGEST_URL` is set, it takes precedence over the `SPLUNK_REALM` setting.
    

> As there is no deployment phase in case of Serverless functions, if a required configuration property is missing, the serverless component MUST log an error.

Reviewer: But the function MUST still run?

Reviewer 2: Yes. Log but don't fail :)

- RUM library MUST use the Zipkin v2 JSON span exporter by default
- RUM library MUST limit the number of sent spans to 100 in a 30 second window per `component` attribute value

#### Serverless 

> Current serverless offering is composed of separate metrics (non OTel) and traces (OTel) solutions. 

Reviewer 3: I suggest replacing "OTel" with "OpenTelemetry" and "spec" with "specification".

Reviewer 2: Well.. "spec" is not used anywhere in the document  😆

Reviewer 4: It's fine to use "OTel" throughout the text after using "OpenTelemetry".

> Current serverless offering is composed of separate metrics (SFx-based) and traces (OTel-based) solutions. 

Reviewer: I would propose we do not cover or talk about SFx-based stuff in GDI spec. This should be purely OTel.

It is also assumed that all the components send data directly to Splunk Observability Cloud (direct ingest). Therefore a set of specific configuration properties needs to be defined for the best user experience.
   

> All serverless solution (wrappers, extensions and other vendor-specific ones) MUST honour following environment variables: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All serverless solution (wrappers, extensions and other vendor-specific ones) MUST honour the following environment variables: 
```

| Name                                   | Default value                                                              | Description                                                   |
| -------------------------------------- | -------------------                                                        | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN`                  | None                                                                       | Access token added to exported data.                          |

> | `SPLUNK_REALM`                         | `us0`                                                                      | Realm configured for the exporter endpoint. [1]               |

Reviewer: I am surprised this is not part of https://github.com/signalfx/gdi-specification/blob/main/specification/configuration.md#instrumentation-libraries... isn't it required to support direct ingest?

Reviewer 2: I guess that for instrumentation libraries URL is enough as it already contains the realm (URLs are realm-specific).

> | `SPLUNK_DEBUG`                         | false                                                                      | If set to true, additional debug information will be logged   |

Reviewer: Is this required? I believe some languages do not have logs today (e.g. Go). Also, why for serverless but not instrumentation?

| `SPLUNK_TRACE_RESPONSE_HEADER_ENABLED` | true                                                                       | Whether Server-Timing header is added to HTTP responses       |

OpenTelemetry-based wrappers MUST honour all configuration properties as defined by the OTel spec.
Following properties MUST have default values set, as specified:

> - `OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER` - defaults to `otlp-http`

Reviewer 5: There's no such exporter as `otlp-http` - neither in the spec nor in the Java SDK. Perhaps you meant setting this to `otlp` and `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_PROTOCOL` to `http/protobuf`?

Reviewer 5: > I can support both propositions. Adding `otlp-http` will certainly simplify life or our customers using direct ingest (also for instrumentations).

If we want to introduce this, we'd have to do it in all instrumentation distros

Reviewer 5: So, can you go back to `otlp` in this PR?

Reviewer: Well if we have a wrappers section it can diverge from app configuration. We could also make `otlp-http` optional. Is there no way in spec today to configure between OTLP gRPC vs. HTTP??

- `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_ENDPOINT` - defaults to `https://ingest.${SPLUNK_REALM}.signalfx.com/v2/trace/otlp` [1]
- `OTEL_PROPAGATORS` - defaults to `tracecontext,baggage`

> - `OTEL_SPAN_LINK_COUNT_LIMIT` - defaults to 1000

Reviewer 5: Nit: does this one even matter at all? Our backend doesn't support links 😅

Reviewer 2: It's copied from instrumentations spec :D

- `OTEL_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE_LENGTH_LIMIT` - defaults to 12000

> - `OTEL_METRICS_EXPORTER` - unset

Reviewer 5: Unset or `none`? Unset basically means that otlp will be used

Metrics components MUST honour following configuration values and defaults:

> - `SPLUNK_METRICS_INGEST_URL` - defaults to `https://ingest.${SPLUNK_REALM}.signalfx.com` [1]                                  

Reviewer 5: We're using `SPLUNK_METRICS_ENDPOINT` in the javagent - it is not specced (yet), but still we should probably be consistent about it.

Reviewer 2: Makes sense, will change that.

| Name                                   | Default value                                                              | Description                                                   |
| -------------------------------------- | -------------------                                                        | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN`                  | None                                                                       | Access token added to exported data.                          |
| `SPLUNK_REALM`                         | `us0`                                                                      | Realm configured for the exporter endpoint. [1]               |
| `SPLUNK_DEBUG`                         | false                                                                      | If set to true, additional debug information will be logged   |
| `SPLUNK_TRACE_RESPONSE_HEADER_ENABLED` | true                                                                       | Whether Server-Timing header is added to HTTP responses       |

> OpenTelemetry-based wrappers MUST honour all configuration properties as defined by the OTel spec.

Reviewer 2: Got me! :D

#### Serverless 

Current serverless offering is composed of separate metrics (non OpenTelemetry) and traces (OpenTelemetry) solutions. By default, the serverless components send data directly to Splunk Observability Cloud (direct ingest). 
   
Apart from standard set of configuration properties for instrumentation libraries based on OpenTelemetry, serverless MUST honour the following:  

| Name                | Default value        | Description                                            |
| ------------------- | -------------------  | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `SPLUNK_REALM`      | none                 | Splunk Observability Cloud ingest realm [1]            |

> - [1] Either `SPLUNK_REALM` or relevant traces exporter endpoint property and `SPLUNK_METRICS_INGEST_URL` MUST be set.

Reviewer 5: Wasn't it supposed to be `SPLUNK_METRICS_ENDPOINT`?
